# School as Code

A lot of the current innovations of education using technology haven’t fundamentally changed the historical approaches to education. They use a lot of input, expecting learners to absorb the material and be able to transform it into useful skills. Some of these efforts do involve interactive exercises, but because they’re often curated by humans, they don’t scale very well to provide extended practice for each skill, nor are they representative of authentic contexts for using the skills that are being taught.

In addition, a lot of these are free resources, and even sometimes open-source, but they are almost all monoliths that can’t be adapted or remixed for different contexts. We’re interested in explicitly making things composable and connected at a higher level of abstraction. Learners and teachers can be empowered to create their own customized curriculum and learning path based on existing materials, but only involving the ones they personally need to focus on. We are aware of the [reusability paradox](https://opencontent.org/docs/paradox.html) and are not proposing a new format or system for open content. We just believe that learners & teachers should only be limited by pedagogical concerns, not technical ones.

The purpose of the School as Code project is to allow for distributed educational materials to be collected from across the internet and expressed in a very simple configuration file (like a helm chart). The system also sets up a schedule of practicing the exercises for you, acting as a schedule on top of the activities themselves. The only thing you need to do to update the “curriculum” is to update the config and regenerate your schedule via automation.

Nothing being proposed here is incredibly new or revolutionary, our proposal is a way of doing things not any specific implementation. We’re just expressing a particular learning pathway in a machine-readable format (as code). That allows them to be shared, updated, and combined in any way the learners want. Eventually, this initiative will also expand to include automatic generation of these materials, but that’s outside of the scope of the current project.

It also fundamentally reimagines what's possible utilizing the full power of the medium (the internet), focusing on learning by doing, and maximizing time-on-task.  Beyond the study materials themselves, this approach is demonstrated by using industry-relevant technologies and workflows for students to manage their learning (GitHub, issues, project boards).  The context where a student studies is an attainable learning objective.

Try it out [here](https://github.com/DeNepo/school-as-code)!
